# CT-Images
covid-19 severity dataset

download link:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BFQXXDpfPp-m79qGTViyddXij08Z4FJC/view

Lungs CT images were collected from people suspected to having COVID-19 in the sagittal views between 1st of March, 2020 and 25th of April, 2020. A total of 600 patients (400 men and 200 women) were included in the study. The mean patient age was 40 years (Table 1). Chest CT scan data were acquired using a Hispeed CT dual slice scanner (healthcare, USA) in a spiral mode at the Qaboos Teb Golestan Medical Imaging Center (Gonbad-e-Kavous, Iran). To minimize motion artifacts, CT images were acquired during a single breath-hold. For CT acquisition, the tube voltage and ampere were 120 kVp and 60 mAs, respectively. The CT images were saved in the standard DICOM format with size of 512 × 512 pixels as axial images (slice thickness, 10 mm; increment, 10 mm). The average number of CT scans for a patient are 25. 
Chest CT is used to assess the severity of lung involvement in COVID-19. The major CT findings were described by using internationally standard nomenclature defined by the Fleischner Society glossary and peer-reviewed literature on viral pneumonia, using terms including GGOs, crazy-paving pattern (GGO with superimposed inter- and intralobular septal thickening), and consolidation (12–14). Lung findings on chest CT scans were small unilateral or bilateral GGOs that grew larger and develop with crazy-paving pattern and subsequent consolidation. A semi quantitative scoring system was used to quantitatively estimate the severity of lung involvement on the basis of the area involved (15). Each of the five lung lobes (left lower and upper lobe, right lower, middle and upper lobe) was visually scored on a scale of 0 to 5, with 0 indicating no involvement; 1, less than 5% involvement; 2, 5%–25% involvement; 3, 26%–49% involvement; 4, 50%– 75% involvement; and 5, more than 75% involvement. The total CT score was the sum of the individual lobar scores, ranging from 0 (no involvement) to 25 (maximum involvement). The score of infection COVID-19 was determined based on the condition of the lobes of the lungs by two radiologists with high experience in thoracic radiology who has performed diagnosis of a large number of COVID-19 patients. Final scores were determined by consensus. Overall, the lower lobes were more inclined to be involved with higher CT scores and subpleural lesions were more common than central lung lesions. Most chest CT scans showed bilateral lung involvement. From these considerations, CT images are categorized in four classes including normal lung tissue and COVID-19 related findings in three different levels of the disease depend on percent of pulmonary involvement and the total CT score as follows: mild with total score of 1-10, moderate with total score of 11-15 and severe with total score of 16-25.
